examples.md, before:

# Example Scripts

Below is a curated list of example scripts that perform various functions. You are free to use any code from any of these examples.

- [`clearinventory.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/pyspigot/blob/master/examples/clearinventory.py): Registers a command that clears the player's inventory.
- [`communitychest.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/pyspigot/blob/master/examples/communitychest.py): Adds a community chest command that opens an inventory where players can place items to share with the rest of the server.
- [`joinmessage.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/pyspigot/blob/master/examples/joinmessage.py): Displays notifications when a player joins the server.
- [`kickcommand.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/PySpigot/blob/master/examples/kickcommand.py): Registers a simple command to kick a player from the server.
- [`periodicmessage.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/PySpigot/blob/master/examples/periodicmessage.py): Creates a task that automatically sends a message to all online players every five seconds.
- [`ping.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/pyspigot/blob/master/examples/ping.py): Adds an audible ping when a player's name is mentioned in chat; ping is also toggleable via command.
- [`protocollib.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/pyspigot/blob/master/examples/protocollib.py): A script that utilizes a ProtocolLib chat packet listener to prevent players from sending chat messages unless if they have permission.
- [`placeholder.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/pyspigot/blob/master/examples/placeholder.py): A very brief script that demonstrates how to register a placeholder with PlaceholderAPI.
- [`swearfilter.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/PySpigot/blob/master/examples/swearfilter.py): Creates a chat listener that filters swear words out of chat messages and replaces them with asterisks (\*).

?> Do you have a script you would like to showcase as an example script? Please get in touch with me!

Commit message:

Add gameoflife.py example script

examples.md, after:

# Example Scripts

Below is a curated list of example scripts that perform various functions. You are free to use any code from any of these examples.

- [`clearinventory.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/pyspigot/blob/master/examples/clearinventory.py): Registers a command that clears the player's inventory.
- [`communitychest.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/pyspigot/blob/master/examples/communitychest.py): Adds a community chest command that opens an inventory where players can place items to share with the rest of the server.
- [`gameoflife.py](https://github.com/magicmq/pyspigot/blob/master/examples/gameoflife.py): Plays [Conway's Game of Life](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conway%27s_Game_of_Life) in Minecraft.
- [`joinmessage.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/pyspigot/blob/master/examples/joinmessage.py): Displays notifications when a player joins the server.
- [`kickcommand.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/PySpigot/blob/master/examples/kickcommand.py): Registers a simple command to kick a player from the server.
- [`periodicmessage.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/PySpigot/blob/master/examples/periodicmessage.py): Creates a task that automatically sends a message to all online players every five seconds.
- [`ping.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/pyspigot/blob/master/examples/ping.py): Adds an audible ping when a player's name is mentioned in chat; ping is also toggleable via command.
- [`protocollib.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/pyspigot/blob/master/examples/protocollib.py): A script that utilizes a ProtocolLib chat packet listener to prevent players from sending chat messages unless if they have permission.
- [`placeholder.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/pyspigot/blob/master/examples/placeholder.py): A very brief script that demonstrates how to register a placeholder with PlaceholderAPI.
- [`swearfilter.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/PySpigot/blob/master/examples/swearfilter.py): Creates a chat listener that filters swear words out of chat messages and replaces them with asterisks (\*).

?> Do you have a script you would like to showcase as an example script? Please get in touch with me!
