externalresources.md, before:

# External Resources

Here are some excellent resources you should check out for help with writing PySpigot scripts:

- [Jython](https://jython.org/)
- [Jython Documentation](https://jython.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
- [Spigot/Bukkit JavaDocs](https://hub.spigotmc.org/javadocs/spigot/index.html?overview-summary.html)
- [Java API Specification](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/index.html)
- There are several publicly-available online Python syntax checkers, here are a few:
	- https://www.pythonchecker.com/
	- https://extendsclass.com/python-tester.html
	- https://www.online-ide.com/online_python_syntax_checker

If you're working with ProtocolLib, here are some useful resources:

- [ProtocolLib Plugin Page](https://www.spigotmc.org/resources/protocollib.1997/)
- [ProtocolLib GitHub (brief documentation here)](https://github.com/aadnk/ProtocolLib)
- [ProtocolLib JavaDocs](https://ci.dmulloy2.net/job/ProtocolLib/javadoc/index.html)
- [Brief tutorial on using ProtocolLib](https://dev.bukkit.org/projects/protocollib/pages/tutorial)

If you're working with PlaceholderAPI, here are some useful resources:

- [PlaceholderAPI Plugin page](https://www.spigotmc.org/resources/protocollib.1997/)
- [PlaceholderAPI Documentation](https://github.com/PlaceholderAPI/PlaceholderAPI/wiki)
- [PlaceholderAPI JavaDocs](https://extendedclip.com/javadoc/placeholderapi/me/clip/placeholderapi/PlaceholderAPI.html)

## New to Python? Check out these great tutorials to get started:

- https://www.learnpython.org/
- https://www.w3schools.com/python/
- The Python Wiki also has a list of great tutorials to learn here: https://wiki.python.org/moin/BeginnersGuide/Programmers

## For Developers

- [PySpigot Javadocs](https://magicmq.dev/javadocs/pyspigot)

Commit message:

Add Discord links to documentation

externalresources.md, after:

# External Resources

Here are some excellent resources you should check out for help with writing PySpigot scripts:

- [Jython](https://jython.org/)
- [Jython Documentation](https://jython.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
- [Spigot/Bukkit JavaDocs](https://hub.spigotmc.org/javadocs/spigot/index.html?overview-summary.html)
- [Java API Specification](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/index.html)
- There are several publicly-available online Python syntax checkers, here are a few:
	- https://www.pythonchecker.com/
	- https://extendsclass.com/python-tester.html
	- https://www.online-ide.com/online_python_syntax_checker

If you're working with ProtocolLib, here are some useful resources:

- [ProtocolLib Plugin Page](https://www.spigotmc.org/resources/protocollib.1997/)
- [ProtocolLib GitHub (brief documentation here)](https://github.com/aadnk/ProtocolLib)
- [ProtocolLib JavaDocs](https://ci.dmulloy2.net/job/ProtocolLib/javadoc/index.html)
- [Brief tutorial on using ProtocolLib](https://dev.bukkit.org/projects/protocollib/pages/tutorial)

If you're working with PlaceholderAPI, here are some useful resources:

- [PlaceholderAPI Plugin page](https://www.spigotmc.org/resources/protocollib.1997/)
- [PlaceholderAPI Documentation](https://github.com/PlaceholderAPI/PlaceholderAPI/wiki)
- [PlaceholderAPI JavaDocs](https://extendedclip.com/javadoc/placeholderapi/me/clip/placeholderapi/PlaceholderAPI.html)

## Discord

PySpigot has its very own Discord server! Join if you're stuck and need help and/or you want to stay in the loop about updates/changes: https://discord.gg/f2u7nzRwuk

## New to Python? Check out these great tutorials to get started:

- https://www.learnpython.org/
- https://www.w3schools.com/python/
- The Python Wiki also has a list of great tutorials to learn here: https://wiki.python.org/moin/BeginnersGuide/Programmers

## For Developers

- [PySpigot Javadocs](https://javadocs.magicmq.dev/pyspigot)
