pluginconfiguration.md, before:

# PySpigot Configuration

Here is PySpigot's configuration file. Comments should sufficiently explain each value:

```yaml
#If false, will disable collection of metrics information by bStats for PySpigot. You may also disable bStats server-wide in the bStats config.yml under /plugins/bStats.
metrics-enabled: true
# The delay for loading scripts (in ticks) after the server finishes loading.
script-load-delay: 20
#List of relocation rules for libraries in the libs folder. Format as <pattern>|<relocated pattern>
library-relocations: []
#If true, PySpigot will log script messages to their respective log file
log-to-file: true
#The minimum log level that will be logged to a script's log file. For log level and their order, see https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.logging/java/util/logging/Level.html
min-log-level: 'INFO'
#Date/time format for timestamps in script log files, written in Java's SimpleDateFormat pattern: https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/time/format/DateTimeFormatter.html
log-timestamp-format: 'MMM dd yyyy HH:mm:ss'
# If true, will print log messages to console every time a script is loaded, run, and unloaded.
script-action-logging: true
#Advanced debug options for scripts
debug-options:
  #If true, will print stack traces for all script-related exceptions to the server console
  print-stack-traces: false
  # If ture, will suppress notifications that the plugin version is outdated
  suppress-update-messages: false
messages:
  plugin-prefix: '&8[&6PySpigot&8] &r'
```

Commit message:

Update documentation of config.yml file

pluginconfiguration.md, after:

# PySpigot Configuration

Here is PySpigot's configuration file. Comments should sufficiently explain each value:

```yaml
# If false, will disable collection of metrics information by bStats for PySpigot. You may also disable bStats server-wide in the bStats config.yml under /plugins/bStats.
metrics-enabled: true
# The delay for loading scripts (in ticks) after the server finishes loading.
script-load-delay: 20
# List of relocation rules for libraries in the libs folder. Format as <pattern>|<relocated pattern>
library-relocations: []
# If true, PySpigot will log script messages to their respective log file. This value is global, and per-script options in script_options.yml overrides this value.
log-to-file: true
# The minimum log level that will be logged to a script's log file. For log level and their order, see https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.logging/java/util/logging/Level.html. This value is global, and per-script options in script_options.yml overrides this value.
min-log-level: 'INFO'
# Date/time format for timestamps in script log files, written in Java's SimpleDateFormat pattern: https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/time/format/DateTimeFormatter.html
log-timestamp-format: 'MMM dd yyyy HH:mm:ss'
# If true, will print log messages to console every time a script is loaded, run, and unloaded.
script-action-logging: true
# If true, will log all redis events to the console and to a script's logger. If false, will only log
verbose-redis-logging: true
# If true, scripts will be automatically unloaded if a plugin the script depends on is unloaded. This is especially useful to ensure script shutdown tasks that require a depending plugin complete successfully (prior to the plugin being unloaded).
script-unload-on-plugin-disable: true
# Advanced debug options for scripts
debug-options:
  # If true, will print stack traces for all script-related exceptions to the server console
  print-stack-traces: false
  # If ture, will suppress notifications that the plugin version is outdated
  suppress-update-messages: false
  # If false, the pyspigot.py file will *not* be automatically replaced with the most recent version (from the pyspigot JAR) on server start if a change is detected. It is recommended to keep this enabled in the event a plugin update comes with an updated pyspigot.py file.
  auto-pyspigot-lib-update-enabled: true
messages:
  plugin-prefix: '&8[&6PySpigot&8] &r'
```
