docs/scripts/examples.md, before:

# Example Scripts

Below is a curated list of example scripts that perform various functions. You are free to use any code from any of these examples. In addition to the examples below, there are additional code snippets and code examples available on [the PySpigot Discord](https://discord.gg/f2u7nzRwuk).

- [`clearinventory.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/pyspigot/blob/master/examples/clearinventory.py): Registers a command that clears the player's inventory.
- [`communitychest.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/pyspigot/blob/master/examples/communitychest.py): Adds a community chest command that opens an inventory where players can place items to share with the rest of the server.
- [`gameoflife.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/pyspigot/blob/master/examples/gameoflife.py): Plays [Conway's Game of Life](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conway%27s_Game_of_Life) in Minecraft.
- [`joinmessage.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/pyspigot/blob/master/examples/joinmessage.py): Displays notifications when a player joins the server.
- [`kickcommand.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/PySpigot/blob/master/examples/kickcommand.py): Registers a simple command to kick a player from the server.
- [`periodicmessage.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/PySpigot/blob/master/examples/periodicmessage.py): Creates a task that automatically sends a message to all online players every five seconds.
- [`ping.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/pyspigot/blob/master/examples/ping.py): Adds an audible ping when a player's name is mentioned in chat; ping is also toggleable via command.
- [`protocollib.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/pyspigot/blob/master/examples/protocollib.py): A script that utilizes a ProtocolLib chat packet listener to prevent players from sending chat messages unless if they have permission.
- [`placeholder.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/pyspigot/blob/master/examples/placeholder.py): A very brief script that demonstrates how to register a placeholder with PlaceholderAPI.
- [`teleport.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/pyspigot/blob/master/examples/teleport/teleport.py): Creates a clickable GUI inventory, accessible via `/teleportgui`, for teleporting to different locations.
    - There is a configuration file that accompanies this script; it can be found [here](https://github.com/magicmq/pyspigot/blob/master/examples/teleport/teleport.yml).
- [`swearfilter.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/PySpigot/blob/master/examples/swearfilter.py): Creates a chat listener that filters swear words out of chat messages and replaces them with asterisks (\*).

???+ info

    Do you have a script you would like to showcase as an example script? Please get in touch with me!

Commit message:

Begin documenting Velocity and BungeeCord

docs/scripts/examples.md, after:

# Example Scripts

Below is a curated list of example scripts that perform various functions. You are free to use any code from any of these examples. In addition to the examples below, there are additional code snippets and code examples available on [the PySpigot Discord](https://discord.gg/f2u7nzRwuk).

=== "Bukkit"

    - [`clearinventory.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/pyspigot/blob/master/examples/clearinventory.py): Registers a command that clears the player's inventory.
    - [`communitychest.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/pyspigot/blob/master/examples/communitychest.py): Adds a community chest command that opens an inventory where players can place items to share with the rest of the server.
    - [`gameoflife.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/pyspigot/blob/master/examples/gameoflife.py): Plays [Conway's Game of Life](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conway%27s_Game_of_Life) in Minecraft.
    - [`joinmessage.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/pyspigot/blob/master/examples/joinmessage.py): Displays notifications when a player joins the server.
    - [`kickcommand.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/PySpigot/blob/master/examples/kickcommand.py): Registers a simple command to kick a player from the server.
    - [`periodicmessage.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/PySpigot/blob/master/examples/periodicmessage.py): Creates a task that automatically sends a message to all online players every five seconds.
    - [`ping.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/pyspigot/blob/master/examples/ping.py): Adds an audible ping when a player's name is mentioned in chat; ping is also toggleable via command.
    - [`protocollib.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/pyspigot/blob/master/examples/protocollib.py): A script that utilizes a ProtocolLib chat packet listener to prevent players from sending chat messages unless if they have permission.
    - [`placeholder.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/pyspigot/blob/master/examples/placeholder.py): A very brief script that demonstrates how to register a placeholder with PlaceholderAPI.
    - [`teleport.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/pyspigot/blob/master/examples/teleport/teleport.py): Creates a clickable GUI inventory, accessible via `/teleportgui`, for teleporting to different locations.
        - There is a configuration file that accompanies this script; it can be found [here](https://github.com/magicmq/pyspigot/blob/master/examples/teleport/teleport.yml).
    - [`swearfilter.py`](https://github.com/magicmq/PySpigot/blob/master/examples/swearfilter.py): Creates a chat listener that filters swear words out of chat messages and replaces them with asterisks (\*).

=== "Velocity"

    - Coming soon  :grin:

=== "BungeeCord"

    - Coming soon  :grin:

???+ info

    Do you have a script you would like to showcase as an example script? Please get in touch with me!
